---
date: 2026-04-05 05:38:05
templateKey: dailyNote
title: 2026-04-05 Notes
published: True
tags:
  - daily-note
---

yesterday: [[2026-04-03-notes]]

- [[easter-2026]]
- [[data-loading-is-a-huge-deal]]

- I have several competing streams of thought about Easter this year, I want to
  focus some reflection and energy in the appropriate direction, of what Easter
  is as a holiday in the Christian calendar, the day my Lord and King defeated
  Death in his physical body and resurrected himself from the grave -
  [[easter-2026]]. It is in how holy and significant that this day is that my
  second stream of thought begins to compete... we profane it so much in America,
  maybe throughout the world, but I'm really thinking about my family-experience
  with Easter and other holidays... So I've got thoughts for the world there too

## Stream 2

I want my wife and daughters to participate with me in celebrating Lent, Holy
Week, and Easter with more reverance, but the problem is our own parents
treating Easter and other High Church holidays that have been Americanized, as
though they own those days for "family time". The point isn't to spend time
with family, it is to observe a holy day and after this year I am about ready
to reserve all holidays for ourselves. If grandparents want to come see their
grandkids, they're welcome anytime - heck we live 15 minutes away in on case
and still the competition happens over a few select holidays. Well, perhaps no
more. I think I'm going to block Easter and Christmas out for my family and we
will participate in traditions that are more meaningful than sharing social
media links while we all sit on our phones in the living room.

## Dev

- Resurrected my OpenRouter API key for opencode after seeing a note aout
  [Qwen3.6 Plus](https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.6) being free so I figured I'd
  give it a go. I think with some pushing I can use [[nexus]] to get a lot done
  with free models as they change and get better. Maybe even self-hosted models
  in the coming years!
