---
date: 2022-11-12 19:39:19
templateKey: blog-post
title: Description of my proposed vimconf 2022 talk
published: True
tags:
  - linux
  - vim
  - tech

---

Switching to Vim opened a whole new world to me for interacting with a computer
and for getting things done. Before I adopted Vim I used GUIs for everything
because I thought that's how it had to be done... Notes in OneNote, code using
a GUI editor, different notes in TiddlyWiki, slides for work in PowerPoint,
slides for church using Logos, etc... Adopting Vim allowed me to disconnect a
specific tool from the problem that tool is solving - because usually I just
need to write text (notes, code, slides, etc.). Now, very nearly everything I
do is from a text-based and git-based workflow... I put all my notes on
basically anything just in my blog, which is all markdown and deployed to GH
with Markata on every push (living dangerously pushing to main) - and that's
all done easily from Vim with nice syntax highlighting, fast response,
integrated git-plugins, etc.. I keep project-specific task lists just in
markdown files and I have Vim/tmux shortcuts to quickly add todos for any
project (todo list is done with markata todoui) and I can get there fast
because my Vim workflow dovetails with Tmux nicely. Also I can pull that list
up right from the terminal, which I'm already in because Vim.... Vim also
pushed me into the cli more - because Vim is so easily extended with cli tools
and I'm already in the terminal... The builtin functionality also made things
make more sense - no more right-click, find "refactor all" or "rename symbol"
(for some stupid reason)... Vim find-replace is so intuitive and if I need it
extended then I learned what sed was because of Vim. Moving quickly in Vim also
enables me to do my job incredibly fast because I hop into several projects a
day in a coaching role - if I was bound by GUIs I'd be waiting forever for
startup, would lose which GUI instance was which project, etc... Being in the
terminal also made Tmux a trivial choice - now I have 90 tmux sessions, all
named appropriately, ready for me to jump back to and all while keeping the
majority of RAM still free for Chrome. Vim as my IDE also forced me to learn
way more about Python (I'm a python developer primarily), how LSP works, how to
configure a development environment, etc... things I took for granted in my GUI
workflows, or never knew, or worse - thought I knew but deeply misunderstood.
Now that I understand them better, I can coach my peers more effectively even
if they are still in a GUI-based ecosystem.

Basically, (Neo)Vim actually did change my life and I'm really thankful for it
(maybe that should be the title?)
