---
date: 2025-09-11 05:34:00
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflection - They Can Come For Anyone
published: True
tags:
  - politics
  - faith
cover: "https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250911111904_ee983ab9.png"

---

At some point in the recent history of my country, political tensions began
increasing exponentially between our 2 parties, and I had hardly cared until
right around 2021/2022. There were policies and patterns emerging in the public
sphere that were troubling to me, and I've sense developed some hard opinions.

A man was just murdered for holding opinions openly that are not much different
than mine - at least as far as the innate divisive nature of the opinions... I
want my country to be safe, I proudly fly the American flag, Jesus saves me
every day and although America isn't a Christian nation I feel blessed that God
put me in this country, I value open-debate, and I've just so happen to come to
hold fairly right-leaning social positions...

!!! danger "and they killed this guy for it"

    Charlie Kirk was murdered for daring to challenge college kids around the country to think critically about what narrative they are force-fed through media and school

The political landscape of America isn't Left vs Right... I mean it is, and in
that dichotomy unfortunately I am on the Right, but this isn't Democratic
values vs Republican values, and I'm not a Republican and most Leftists aren't
actually Democrats... these "sides" have both been co-opted by wicked
people... In what I've learned, I would've said Dems had it right up until the
mid 2000s, and idk what happened but since the 10s-onward the media and
honestly a majority of democratic elected-officials are the ones CRANKING UP
THE VIOLENT RHETORIC. Conservatives are likened to Hitler in the media, Charlie
himself was called a faccist (what a retarded thing to say... accuse the guy
who built his career on good-faith debate of being a police-state supporter)
and people with national platforms are daily accusing those on the Right of
being hateful simply for wanting to have debate, for not bowing down to
identity politics and non-arguments.

Charlie is a martyr for freedom, and a victim of the violent rhetoric the media
has been pushing against the Right ever since Donald Trump became the boogy-man.

I value my privacy and I believe in what I believe in... I'm not ashamed to
publically be known for any conviction I hold, but if they killed Charlie for
anything he belived, **they'd kill me too**.

And who is "they"? Charlie was shot 16 hours ago, I have seen no evidence that
the shooter was a democrat or even on the Left... but what I have seen on
social media is proud Leftists celebrating the killing of a young dad, husband,
Christian, and activist for publically encouraging people to debate and to bow
to the better argument, not the stronger more violent opponent.... I don't know
anything about the man who pulled the trigger, but I do know that a disturbing
number of people are comfortable putting their face behind a campaign of
assassination and fear. They're comfortable with it because it's socially
aacceptable to call for violence against **some groups** of people, primarily
the one group that is constantly villianized in absolute ignorance - White
Christian Men... If you don't agree with this then I would say you are blinded...
Christianity is openly mocked, and you wouldn't notice if you wouldn't
notice... whereas other religions are so openly protected it's become comical to me.
When's the last time you felt comfortable making a joke about Islam or Judaism
compared to Christianity? Even if you wouldn't joke about any of them, you know
you'd be safe to criticize one publically, and the other 2 you'd face
consequences for. And these are the things these lunatics celebrate... they
love that another White Christian Man was removed from God's green earth...

!!! warning "These poor people"

    I'm not complaining necessarily about Christianity's lack of priviliege in the public sphere and my heart breaks for people who hate - period.... to hate someone for a difference of worldview or opinion to the point of openly celebrating their death is one of the saddest and most sickening realities I can think of.

What can I do after this? Charlie was just a regular guy. It's one thing to
have the attempted-assassination of Trump sweapt under the rug, or to brush it
off as a targeted attack against a powerful man. But Charlie wasn't a
politician... he was just a guy with a job, who went around having
conversations. The violence against the Right is stochastic in nature, but
increasingly present as public figures continue to use hitler and nazi-fueled
language against people they disagree with...

Paired so closely in time with the news of [The slaying of Iryna
Zarutska](https://www.foxnews.com/us/victim-random-train-stabbing-embraced-american-dream-could-have-taken-world-storm-neighbors-say)
who was attacked randomly by a man who, all unconfirmed allegations aside, had
been arrested 14 times for violent crimes. And yet, in my country of freedom, a
violent criminal was free to murder a refugee fleeing a war-torn region... (if
you watched any videos you'll see 4 or 5 people witness the attack, and then do
nothing as Iryna sorrowfully dies, alone and unaided in a foreign country...
the victim of a monster)

Charlie commented on this event, I have the same feelings about the climax I
thought it led to after years of under-reported race-fueld violence against
white people, and he was called a racist just for noticing patterns...

If they shot him for saying something about any of his convictions, for
believing he should be allowed to raise his family in safety, to attend church,
and to openly debate for the sake of the better idea - they'd shoot me
to... and celebrate.

I take as much comfort as possible, however minimal, knowing that Charlie loved
Jesus, and that his family has the hope of resurrection in the name of Jesus to see
him again... But 2 kids lost their dad, and a young woman lost her husband,
lunatics celebrate, today is just another day, and if someone would come for a
normal guy like Charlie, they'd come for you too.
