---
date: 2025-09-15 06:05:41
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflection (Short) - Erets
published: True
tags:
  - cosmos
  - faith
cover: "https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250915114206_331625d7.png"

---

I've been really buggin out about a project I'm working on and nearly
forgetting to spend meaningful time during the day/mornings on reflection.
Thankfully a 60 second Bible Project video offered me a short framework this
morning to think about the land God created...

The video is a minute long, you can find it [on the Bible Project website](https://bibleproject.com/videos/vocab-insight-erets-land/)

When I think about Bible stuff, especially anything related to Old Testament or
Creation (which is actually literally everything) I have a hard time stopping
my mind from jumping to being critical of my brothers and sisters in Christ who
adopt naieve or mainstream ideas about my Ancient Faith and King.

One of the things my spiritual family largely misses is the cosmic nature of
the creation account.... In this case of [[erets]], which shows up on page 1 of
the Bible, the Western mind reads "In the beginning God created the heavens and
the earth..." and we go "oh, the globe, the planet, God made the planet,
obviously"

And the thing is... ya, he did... but that's not what the creation story gets
at, and what it does get at is what I'm reflecting on...

God put me on the erets, out of the dust of the erets he formed me, and you...
This is more than God drawing planet earth on the canvas of our universe.
Yahweh brought order to chaos, he created the heavens (literally "the skies")
and filled it and he also created the earth and filled it. There is a parallel
nature to these realms - the physical earthly realm of erets and the spiritual
heavenly realm of the skies. These words carry ancient meaning in the creation
context, they are poetic and visual in nature, rather than explanatory and
physical.

Recognizing that the realm I'm in, God ordered and put me in, should bring
meaning to everything I do. My King does say to pray "\[God's\] will be done on
earth as it is in heaven". I am supposed to be one of the ones "bringing heaven
to earth" - carrying on the ministry of Jesus in the ways he commanded. Paul
commands to "do everything with gratitude" [philippians 4:6](https://biblehub.com/philippians/4-6.htm)
in my heart towards Jesus. Jesus said plainly "those who love me obey me" [](https://www.biblegateway.com/verse/en/John%2014%3A21)

But if I misunderstand my place in the cosmos, as a representative of the one
True God to the physical realm he created that exists in a planar intersection
with the heavenly realm, if I misunderstand this I will misrepresent my God...
and I fear I have been. I've been consumed with things inside my life lately,
and perhaps that's moderately ok... I don't think that the present trials of my
life are drawing me away from Jesus at all, but I'd be an idiot to not
recognize that there are moments in my day where I feel like nothing matters,
where I walk around on God's erets somewhat aimlessly due to my own
self-loathing and consumption. These are moments where my flesh and sin are
strong, and the trials is revealing it. The meditation on my purpose in God's
creation, as a member of the realm of the ordered erets, is calming me in this
moment.

God's purpose for anyone is this:

!!! note "1 Thess. 5:18"

    give thanks in everything; for this is Godâ€™s will for you in Christ Jesus.

At any moment, anyone one of us could be taken off earth - whether by old age
like my Grandma, or by violent hatred like [Charlie Kirk](). God's will (one of
the wills anyways) for anyone is the same, as a member of ordered creation
called by Jesus it's my duty to live this out... and by God's grace I know
it's possible by his intervention - to give thanks in everything.

The honest truth is I'm not really sure what to do besides take a breath every
minute, acknowledge and preach the truth that Jesus is the author and perfector
of my life and faith, and to pray this truth calms my heart in the midst of the
turmoil I've been feeling lately.

Yahweh orders creation, he put all of us on the erets, and the message of his
grace goes out to all people.... who will answer and bring God's will to the
earth? Thankfully it's not my job to know. My job is simple - to give thanks and to
love the Lord my God with all of me.
