---
date: 2025-08-18 06:12:13
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflecting on Romans 7:7-13
published: True
tags:
  - reflections
  - faith
cover: "https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250818121110_25708203.png"
---

## Passage

Romans 7:7–7:13 (ESV): 7 What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no
means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I
would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, “You shall
not covet.” 8 But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced
in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. 9 I was
once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive
and I died. 10 The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to
me. 11 For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and
through it killed me. 12 So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and
righteous and good. 13 Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no
means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that
sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful
beyond measure. 

## Reflection

As I was dimwittedly working through 1 John 3 for
[[olivet-mens-group-august-2025]] I found myself gravitating towards Romans 7
and 8 as it brings clarity to John's words about practicing sin vs being a
child of God.

???+ note "Personal"

    God's been good to me as I have started trying to be more focused in
    theological study and reflection... It has been long enough for my "break" to
    be over

It goes without saying in Christian circles that Romans is a tough cookie...
Paul packs a lot in the letter and although I'm focusing right now on 7 verses,
the context certainly matters when it comes to deeper study. As for me this
morning I believe God's calling me to reverse-sear my conscience in regards to
some persistent sins in my life. I write a little note in my notes for the olivet study:

> As I write this out, the Christian concept of "setting the captives free" and
jubilee and freedom strike my heart deeply. Just these phrases begin to call up
emotions. But as I look at my life right now, what am I doing that shouts
freedom? I spend more time lately playing games than being entrenched in
theological study, I think about work more than things which are noble and
praiseworthy, and I seem to purposefully focus on my own situations internally
rather than on God's grace (which I do externally a lot - but I feel this
tension inside - __a hook of doubt__)

These aren't the motifs in the passage, but the conversation around sin in our
hearts spiderwebs throughout scripture very quickly if the conversation is to
be worth anything... Freedom is core in a Christian worldview, but am I free
and devoted to Jesus or a morally bankrupt slave to myself?

So far I haven't even touched the passage so let me dive in a bit.

???+ note ""

    The rest of this post was dictated and transcribed via a STT utility I have at home. I often do this and rework my thoughts but here it's easier to word vomit the ideas and hope they make sense on the other side. I loosely edited it for readability but for whatever it's worth, this is moreso my thinking voice than my public speaking voice

"What then shall we say, that the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law I would not have known sin."

And that feels to me a little bit like Paul saying what I've heard other Christians today say — something like:
"I didn't struggle with anger until I became a Christian and then it was a struggle!"

So there's that side of it.

And then the other side of it is that God has "written eternity on our hearts," has He not? And through Common Grace, do we not all understand very common morality?

Aside from our worldviews, there are things that we know are wrong. Murdering is simply wrong. Another good example is something like cowardice—or like Paul will go on to say, covetousness.

Whether you're a Christian or not, you wouldn't value covetousness or cowardice. Cultures across the world and across history reject these things.

So, through becoming a Christian, the struggle with sin really begins — because it's the understanding not that something is just kind of morally wrong, but that you're violating the law of the Creator of the universe.

Now, we don't want to dive in so deep that we reject the context (of Paul's thoughts in Romans 7:7–13). And so, I don't want to dissect these few verses too much.

And so what's my reflection?

I don't know.

Sin is crouching at the door.
And it deceives me.
So, through the law, I learn what my sin is—it lets me name my killer.

The law didn't bring death—it brings understanding of death, because it reveals sin, which produces death.

But the part that I'm not "to" in my heart yet is the end of the passage. Verse 13:

"Did that which is good then (the law) bring death to me? By no means! It was sin producing death in me through what is good (the law), in order that sin might be shown to be sin and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure."

And I think that that phrase "sinful beyond measure" is a reflection of Paul's understanding of sin in his life.

Now, I claim I have the same mental understanding...

Later on in Romans 7, Paul talks about his "inner man" and his mind being a slave to the law of the Spirit, but his body being a slave to sin.

But can I really say that my mind is a slave to the law of the Spirit?

I certainly would make a lot of theological points about it—but is it really?

That's my reflection this morning.

I'm not as convicted over sin in my life, and so this reverse conscience searing needs to happen.

---

## Another Reflection

As I come back here for a second day, I believe by the guidance of the Spirit,
I trust God to encourage and teach me through Paul's words

How do I know what is sin (lawlessness) and what is not sin (ie. not lawless, ie. _lawful_)? It's through the law as noted above. 

What to do about this though? One day since some conviction settled into my heart certainly doesn't indicate anything about my life, but what else is relevant to this meditation?

!!! note "Psalm 1:1-2" 

    1 Blessed is the man who does not walk in the advice of the wicked;  nor does he stand in the way of sinners;  nor does he sit in the assembly of mockers.  2 Instead, in the law of Yahweh is his delight,  and on his law he meditates day and night.  

The "law" is _torah_... generally this is referring to a code of holy living.
Torah isn't "the law" how we understand the law, it's case-law for holy living.
Torah describes the flight of an arrow towards its target - it's the direction
of your life. 

So the psalmist says that it's in the constant meditation of God's law (God's direction for holy living) that a man is "blessed". 

> There's many words to use, but this word "blessed" is a Hebrew word used for when describing the good life of another person

- Blessed is the man who meditates on the law of Yahweh
- The law brings knowledge of sin
- Furthermore, the law causes sin to "become sinful beyond measure"
- How? Via the constant meditation of the law of Yahweh - which Psalm 1:3 says

!!! note "Psalm 1:3" 

    3 And so, he is like a tree planted by streams of water  that gives its fruit in its season;  its leaf also does not wither.  Therefore all that he does prospers.  

Bible stuff is apart of my daily vocabulary with anyone. God's law is in my
mind, and hopefully my heart, every day. At the same time, the callousness is
present. It's Paul's lament about being the chief of sinners, and about the war
in his members (Romans 7/8)... 

The solution is this... day by day meditation - slightly more focused and
directed... God's blessing is absolutely on my lie - and the word for "blessed"
in Psalm 1 referring to _others_ describing the life of the blessed man as
blessed is very true for me - people around me know God's been good to me. So I
have every bit of faith that he will continue that goodness, and thankfully
conviction this morning and week to take small steps towards a more devoted
life to the meditation of God's law.

---

## Round 3

Today the Bible Project app brought me to Isaiah 61 which coincides with this
extended reflection quite well as it's one of the places we get the image and
phrase of "setting the captives free" which is a Biblical theme I see Paul
leaning on at the end of Romans 7.

!!! note "Isaiah 61"

    1 The Spirit of the Lord Yahweh is upon me,
    because Yahweh has anointed me,  he has sent me to bring good news to the
    oppressed,  to bind up the brokenhearted,  to proclaim release to the captives
    and liberation to those who are bound,  
    2 to proclaim the year of Yahweh’s
    favor,  and our God’s day of vengeance,  to comfort all those in mourning,
    3 to give for those in mourning in Zion,  to give them a head wrap instead of
    ashes,  the oil of joy instead of mourning,  a garment of praise instead of a
    faint spirit.  And they will be called oaks of righteousness,  the planting of
    Yahweh, to show his glory.  

    4 And they shall build the ancient ruins,  they
    shall erect the former deserted places.  And they shall restore the devastated
    cities,  the deserted places of many generations.  
    5 And strangers shall stand
    and feed your flocks,  and foreigners shall be your farmers and vinedressers.
    6 But you shall be called the priests of Yahweh,  you will be called servers of
    our God.  You shall eat the wealth of the nations,  and you shall boast in
    their riches.  
    7 Instead of your shame, a double portion,  and instead of
    insult, they will rejoice over their portion.  Therefore they will take a
    double portion in their land;  they shall possess everlasting joy.  
    8 For I, Yahweh, love justice,  hate robbery and injustice,  and I will
    faithfully give
    their reward,  and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.  
    9 And their
    descendants will be known among the nations,  and their offspring in the midst
    of the peoples.  All those who see them shall recognize them,  that they are
    descendants whom Yahweh has blessed.  

    10 I will rejoice greatly in Yahweh;  my
    being shall shout in exultation in my God.  For he has clothed me with garments
    of salvation,  he has covered me with the robe of righteousness,  as a
    bridegroom adorns himself with a head wrap like a priest,  and as a bride
    adorns herself with her jewelry. 
    11 For as the earth produces its sprout,  and
    as a garden makes its plants sprout,  so the Lord Yahweh will make
    righteousness sprout,  and praise before all the nations.  

!!! warning ""

    This isn't a reflection or study of Isaiah 61 - just a few notes as they pertain to my reflection on Romans 7 and 8 and the posture I have towards sin in my life

This is a messianic prophecy delivered to the people of God in captivity to
spur the remnant of the faithful to continue hoping in the promises of Yahweh.

Israel was in captivity more or less as discipline for violating God's word
pretty regularly... Consistent with my reflection so far - has "sin become sin
beyond measure" to me yet? No, just as it wasn't for Israel, and God allowed
His people to be enslaved multiple times as they turned to foreign gods... is
callousness to sin any different than turning to a foreign god? No, it's
exactly what it is.

But thankfully the over-arching story is about Yahweh's faithfulness to His
people, and this prophecy is for those who exercise faithfulness to Yahweh....
that's the crux of my reflection on Romans 7, how can I claim the promises of
God if sin is so present in my life? I think the answer is that it's only
through the awakening of the Spirit that I can genuinely question my loyalty to
Yahweh and also acknowledge his loyalty to the Promise He brought me into. By
God's grace I'm just a guy who the Lord has grace on, and I pray through daily
meditation my will becomes so conformed to the will of Jesus that I can
faithfully say "sin has become beyond sin to me"

Praise God for Paul's words at the end of Romans 7

!!! note "Romans 7:24-25"

    24 Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death? 25 Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.

---

## Round 4

!!! note "Romans 7:13"

    13 Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. 

This morning I don't know if it was another translation or the direct explicit
work of the Spirit but I feel like something clicked just a little bit here.
The law didn't bring sin (lawlessness), God's law pre-exists Torah (Genesis,
the trees), so the law says what is good and bad, and it's the brokenness of
humanity (sin) producing death in us/me and the production of death shows sin
to be what it is - sinful beyond measure

So as I reflect here on Paul, Romans, and myself - what am I missing or what is
God recovering in me? This week has been pretty good concerning the areas of my
mind and life where I feel callous and hardened. The daily meditation can't NOT
be the reason - devotion in the morning, however minimal and before anything else,
is producing in me the will to do God's good work in my own life. I don't mean
giving money and doing charity - but in the privacy of my mind and day, do I
honor the Lord with every thought?

The cliche but honest answer is no but I feel God's working in my heart, the
tug towards Heaven and away from the hellish pit of my own desires
