---
templateKey: blog-post
tags: ["books", "faith"]
title: Screwtape
date: 2022-08-22T00:00:00
cover: "media/screwtape.png"
published: true
---

# Chapters

Below are just quick notes or quotes from each chapter as a reminder of what to
go back to chat about. This isn't intended to be in-depth by any stretch.

## Chapter 1

"Your man has been accustomed, ever since he was a boy, to have a dozen
incompatible philosophies dancing about together inside his head. He doesn't
think of doctrines as primarily 'true' or 'false', but as 'academic' or
'practical', 'outworn' or 'contemporary', 'conventional' or 'ruthless'"

## Chapter 2

## Chapter 3

pg 11. Keeping the patient's mind focused on the 'inner life' so his actions do
not ever reflect his conversion

pg 12. Creating an imaginary person for whom to pray... "In time, you may get
the cleavage so wide that no thought or feeling from his prayers for the
imagined mother will ever flow over into his treatment of the real one"

pg 13-14. "Let him assume that she knows how annoying it is and does it to
annoy - if you know your job he will not notice the immense improbability of
the assumption" -> This point is particularly convicting to me

!!! background-thought ""

    The last point about encouraging the patient to interpret the mother's every
    move in an over-sensitive fashion is actually very relatable for me

## Chapter 4

pg 15. Convincing the patient that scheduled prayer is wrong and that he must
create a _mood_ within himself for real prayer reminds me of high school youth
groups talking about "praying in the spirit" and silly conversation "combating
salvation by works" ideas like scheduled prayer times.

pg 16. "they constantly forget, what you must always remember, that they are
animals and that whatever their bodies do affects their souls" ðŸ‘ˆ feels a lot
like Genesis 3, and humans are never more human than when we exercise
self-control.

pg. 16. "Keep them watching their own minds and trying to produce _feelings_
there by the action of their own wills"

!!! background-thought ""

    I totally remember feeling like I needed to want to pray in order for my
    prayers to matter

pg 17. "When they say they re praying for forgiveness, let them be trying to
feel forgiven"

pg 18. "But whatever the nature of the composite object, you must keep him
praying to _it_ - to the thing that he has made, not to the Person who has made
him"

!!! background-thought ""

    Lewis talking actual idolatry with meaningful consequences... not the "money
    is my idol" take most pastors preach

## Chapter 5

pg 23. "...while tens of thousands who do not go so far as that will
nevertheless have their attention diverted from themselves to values and causes
which they believe to be higher than the self. I know that the Enemy
disapproves many of these causes. But that is where He is so unfair. He often
makes prizes of humans who have given their lives for causes He think bad on
the monstrously sophistical ground that the humans thought them good and were
following the best they knew"

!!! warning "WARNING TITLE"

    This reminds me of the young Tarkan in Narnia: The Last Battle, who Aslan
    ascribes all his good deeds done to Tash as done to himself - effectively
    saying the Tarkan's loyalty to the wrong god is honored by Aslan? Definitely
    want to know more about Lewis' thoughts there and here in Screwtape

## Chapter 6

pg 25. "There is nothing like suspense and anxiety for barricading a human's
mind against the Enemy."

!!! warning ""

    Screwtape's point in the beinning of the chapter confuses me... He instructs
    Wormwood to keep the man thinking that the things he is anxious about, the
    things themselves, are his trials/cross to bear, rather than the anxiety
    itself. So from the Christian perspective, Lewis seems to be saying that the
    real-time, present, acute anxiety and suspense in the man's heart regarding the
    war is the actual trial and cross... not the things the man is anxious about. I
    don't know what to do with this but it _feels_ convicting to me. Growing up I
    often had the thought that nothing could be wrong because "I have Jesus", and I
    would look at my circumstances as things to bear - for me the biggest one was
    singleness. So would Lewis say my outlook on my singleness as the thing to
    bear, rather than the anxiety about being single, was the enemy twisting my
    convictions to be inward rather than God-ward? It clearly looks like my
    convictions were inward, but I'm not sure I understand how seeing the anxiety
    itself as my "cross to bare" is any more Biblical...

## Chapter 7

page 32. "The fact that 'devils' are predominately _comic_ figures in the
modern imagination will help you"

!!! background-thought ""

    I think It's funny because I bet most people, myself included, reading this book (at
    least the first time) have a red-devil type figure in mind for Screwtape or
    Wormwood

page 31-32. "If once we can produce our perfect work -- the Materialist
Magician, the man, not using, but veritably worshipping, what he vaguely called
'Froces' while denying the existence of 'spirits' -- then the end of the war
will be in sight."

!!! background-thought ""

  I hear some non-Christian friends say things like "I'm spiritual so I
  appreciate your prayers". In a sense they believe in some kind of
  non-physical "thing" but not in any real sense so it looks, to me, similar to
  what Screwtape longs for in his letter to Wormwood.

page 32. "All extremes, except extreme deviotion to the Enemy, are to be
encouraged... Other ages, of which the present is one, are unbalanced and prone
to faction, and it is our business to inflame them"

!!! background-thought ""

    Using Christianity to justify political positions or judgement seems right
    here. Extreme devotion to our God I don't think should offend people as often
    or to the degree that many Christians think is right... People flocked to
    Jesus, only the religious elite and politically powerful hated him. When
    Christianity is mixed with anything other than itself, that's when it becomes
    offensive. I think I see people hold to something like Christian Nationalism,
    and the offensive nature of it justifies the position because "we were always
    going to be persecured for loving Jesus"

!!! danger "page 34"

    Let him begin by treating the Patriotism or the Pacifism as a part of his
    religion. Then let him, under then influence of partisan spirit, come to
    regard it as the most important part...

## Chapter 8

!!! success "page 39"

    For He cannot ravish. He can only woo.

!!! note "page 40"

    He wants them to learn to walk and must therefore take away His hand; and
    if only the will to walk is really there He is pleased even with their
    stumbles

## Chapter 9

page 43. "In the first place I have always found that the trough periods of the
human undulation provide excellen opportunity for all sensual tempations,
particularly those of sex... The attack has a much better chance of success
when the man's whole innter world is drab and cold and empty."

!!! background-thought ""

    I feel this observation in my own life deeply - in my 'troughs' I'm drawn to
    pleasurable things in a very unpleasurable way

!!! success "page 44"

    Never forget that when we are dealing with any pleasure in its healthy and
    normal and satisfying form, we are, in a sense, on the Enemy's ground.

!!! danger "jargon not wisdom"

    Of course there is no conceivable way of getting by reason from the
    proposition 'I am losing interest in this' to the proposition 'This is
    false'/ But, as I said before, it is jargon, not reason, you must rely on.

## Chapter 10

page 49. "Did he commit himself deeply? I don't mean the words. There is a
subtle play of looks and tons and laughs by which a mortal can imply that he is
of the same party as those to whom he is speaking"

!!! background-thought ""

    I resonate with the temptation Scretape is basically instructing Wormwood to
    employ - two-facedness/double-life. In hs/college in particular I would 'play
    the part' to fit in to a particular crowd. I'd rarely confess Christianity
    early on, would never deny it explicitly, but would act and talk in a
    way/about things to imply that I was not necessarily non-Christian, but
    instead nothing to ask about.

    Chapter 10 in overall convicting as it just drives home the point I noted
    just now.... that I'm very prone to 'acting' in order to fit into a community

## Chatper 11

page 55. "The real use of Joke or Humour is in quite a different direction, and
it is specially promising among the English who take their 'sense of humour' so
seriously that a deficiency in this sense is almost the only deficiency at
which they feel shame. Humour is for them the all-consoling and (mark this) the
all-excusing, grace of life"

!!! danger "all-excusing grace of life"

    Humour is for them the all-consoling and (mark this) the all-excusing,
    grace of life

!!! background-thought ""

    Basically I understand Lewis to be saying here that men (or the English in
    particular) take great pride in having a sense of humor - so much so that
    humor becomes an excuse to laugh at anything. When anything is worth laughing
    at, then I think it's very hard to prioritize things above others - becuase
    if everything is a joke, is anything really worthy of more than a joke?

!!! warning "Flippancy"

    I didn't understand flippancy as first because I've always kind of equated
    it with "quick". However, it's more of a "quickness" paired with a total
    lack of respect/awareness for/of X.

!!! warning "churches"

    Are there areas in the church where we are flippant (specifically with humor I guess?)

## Chapter 12

!!! danger "page 57-58"

    As long as he retains externally the habits of a Christian he can still be
    made to think of himself as one who has adopted a few new friends and
    amusements but whose spiritual state is much the same as it was six weeks
    ago.

page 58. [The dim uneasiness about `backsliding` Screwtape describes in the
chapter] increases the patient's reluctance to think about the Enemy.

!!! background-thought ""

    This is too real for me - in seasons of rebellion, and honestly anytime I
    fall away from "Christian habits" I notice that I am actually reluctant to
    pray or meditate. Often the only thing that (or the initial thing in
    appearance) that brings me back is my kids and praying with them or singing
    Doxology. A choice I wouldnt' make alone, but make for their sake - perhaps
    this is God's grace poured out on me

!!! danger "page 58"

    They hate every idea that suggests Him, just as men in financial
    embarrassment hate the very sight of a pass-book.

## Chapter 13

Particularly a challenging chapter. It's interesting to think about pleasurable
things, for their own sake and not enjoyed outside the boundaires set for
pleasure by God, are harmful to our enemy's tactics. I do not know if I enjoy
things for their own sake enough or rightly....

!!! warning ""

    Do my tech hobbies make me more human or less by distracting me from holier
    things...

## Chapter 14

!!! warning "page 69"

    All virtues are less formidable to us once the man is aware that he has
    them, but this is specially true of humility.

## Chapter 16

!!! note "page 81"

    In the first place the parochial organisation [Church] should always be
    attacked, because, being a _unity of place and not of likings_, it brings
    people of different classes and psychology together in the kind of unity
    the Enemy desires

!!! danger "page 82-83"

    In order to spare the laity all 'difficulties' he has deserted both the
    lectionary and the appointed psalms and now, without noticing it, revoles
    endlessly round the little treadmill of his fifteen favourite psalms and
    twenty favorite lessons.

## Chapter 17

!!! background-thought ""

    Gluttony of Delicacy, not gluttony of Excess

!!! danger "page 88"

    You see? Because what she wants is smaller and less costly than what has
    been set before her, she never recognises as gluttony her determination to
    get what she wants, however troublesome it may be to others

## Chapter 18

Screwtape's lack of understanding,and arrogant questioning, of the Enemy's
_love_ is a hilarious commentary on humans who stand staunchly opposed to
Yahweh. Academic peers of mine, with such amazing pride, speaking aginst the
Biblical narrative because _it doesn't make sense_... Lewis makes a good point
through Screwtape "Members of His faction have frequently admitted that if ever
we [demons] came to understand what He means by love, the war would be over and
we should re-enter Heaven". I think Lewis' point dovetails with the idea that
Jesus is actually very compelling and the rubbish about him being offensive is
a replay of the Gospels - where the rich and elite are the ones offended, not
the people he calls to the kingdom. Jesus' love doesn't make sense to those who
have everything they think they need... His love is for those who know they are
lowly

## Chapter 19

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chapter 20

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chapter 21

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chatper 22

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chatper 23

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chatper 24

page 130 - It's always the novice who exaggerates...

!!! background-thought ""

    I think about Summit in particular, where I got to meet a lot of big names in
    apologetics, and I'd talk about them to others like we were friends... The
    difference between "I know X" and "X knows me" is a thing I kept hidden so I
    could feel important

## Chatper 25

!!! danger "Christianity And..."

    What we want, if men becomes Christians at all, is to koeep them in the
    state of mind I call 'Christianity And'. You know - Christianity and the
    Crisis,Christianity and the New Order, ...

!!! background-thought ""

    I don't know... smells more and more like Christian Nationalism is the
    modern-day `Christinaity And`... So much focus on policy, behavior, order
    (patriarchy even).... Not a lot about Jesus _in the conversation about
    Christian Nationalism_ (not that Christians in this mindset don't genuinely
    love Jesus or talk about him - but I don't hear Jesus often in the
    conversation, I only hear the politics). But I suppose to be fair there's
    every chance in the world that I misunderstand the position and people.

!!! danger ""

    But if I do misunderstand... A fairly educated, theologically competent,
    Biblically literate person... then what do Christian Nationalists expect of
    people who never heard of Jesus, or already were introduced to Republican
    Jesus or something... I'm not the cream of the crop, but if I don't
    properly understand what the position is about then the world, unbelievers
    I mean, will be even more turned off to the Gospel

Page 139 - "We have trained them to think of the Future as a promised land
which favoured heroes attain - not as something which everyone reaches at the
rate of sixety minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is..."

## Chatper 26

!!! danger "_Unselfishness_"

    Note, once again, the admirable work of our Philological Arm in
    substituting the negative unselfishness for the Enemy's positive Charity

> Big one for me... hard to even process

!!! warning "page 143"

    In discussing any joint action, it becomes obligatory thta A should argue
    in favour of B's supposed wishes and against his own, while B does the
    opposite

!!! background-thought ""

    Going out to eat, what to do tonight, etc... simple things, not big ones
    (like how to discipline our kids), is where this is just rampant in my
    life... I constantly and consciously say in my head "X will make my wife
    happier even though I don't want to" then after whatever "X" is, turns out
    she didn't really care or want it _OR_ she's upset because she feels like a
    nuisance to me... Then the reality is I don't actually know if I saw her as a
    nuisance in that moment, or if I genuinely wanted to do what she wanted out
    of love and charity...

!!! warning "page 144"

    He insists on doing 'what the others want'. They insist on doing what he
    wants. Passions are roused. Soon someone is saying 'Very well then, I won't
    have any tea at all!', and a real quarrel ensues with bitter resentment on
    both sides.

> Happens all the freaking time, and at the end of it I'm left with "wtf just happened?"

## Chatper 27

> TODO: Go through and make notes

## Chatper 28
