---
date: 2025-07-02 21:22:03
templateKey: blog-post
title: Nostr
published: True
tags:
  - nostr
  - tech
cover: "https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250716021017_b0d9be37.png"
---

???+ note "How to start..."

    This isn't a getting started with nostr - see [[getting-started-with-nostr]] for that

[The nostr docs](https://nostr.com/)

Nostr is a very intriguing protocol for communication that lends itself to a
decentrlized social media experience through the use of relays. I would love to
understand it more fully someday, but I am inclined to be in line with
almost anything decentrlized, and although the primary content in the
nostr-verse right now is bitcoin, I am sure that as time goes on, the need for
a truly free way to communicate will be necessary - and nostr won't solve every
problem, but I think it'll be a tool in the set of solutions we come up with.
It's secure, decentralized, actively worked on, and very flexible.

???+ note "NOSTR"

    Notes and Other Stuff Transmited over Relays

## Decentralization

Why does decentralization matter? Put simply - censorship. A founding principal
of America is free speech and in recent years our right to speak freely has
been put under severe fire.

I've crossed paths with people who very regularly talked about freedom of
speech but it wasn't until the last several years, mostly with covid that I
started to pay a little closer attention. I'm not turning this post into any
long rant about anything specific, but I do know that many voices were silenced
on Facebook, Twitter/X, Insta, etc. Big Tech really threw the hammer down on
people - a simple example was the Ivermectin stuff... which in the last 2 years
has turned out to be a pretty effective treatment for many thousands of people!

But why does that matter? It's because the platforms that existed which made it
possible for anyone to "have an audience" made harsh judgements about what
could and couldn't be on their platforms... There's pros and cons to this, but a
primary con I see is that the power to limit the spread of information was
pretty solely concentrated in the departments of these Big Tech firms that
allowed or disallowed certain things to be said and expressed on their
platforms.

Nostr is different here in that there's no central command, no single data
center or hub.... Nostr is a protocol, like HTTP is a protocol... anyone can
send "Notes and Other Stuff over Relays" so developers can build any kind of UI
for it, and you as the user can subscribe to relays that tend to have
information you care about... in a sense it's kind of like subreddits but not
quite as organized (yet).... but unlike reddit, there's no central authority.
The closest it gets is that a relay may go down or someone may choose to close
one - no big, you just subscribe to other relays, or don't subscribe to relays
you don't want to see

Another friend of mine likened this to RSS - and it's also not UNlike that, but
there's more to it - the notes are on the relays, there's encryption throughout
the protocol, and several other standards called NIPS that make nostr unique,
and I think bulletproof as we go into a future clouded by big government and
big tech collaboration.

## Brief Usage

As for a usage pattern with nostr I think you have to combine the ideas of
reddit, rss, and twitter...

Some apps like coracle.social have nice support for building "feeds" and
"lists"... lists are combinations of tags (hashtags) and feeds are combinations
of lists - at least in the coracle world. This means you can use lists of tags
to discover content and users, create feeds of things you want to see regularly
(like your RSS feed subscriptions), follow other users (using their pub keys
see [## Follow Me]), and curate your social media experience in whatever way
you want.

There's nostr apps specific to mobile (primal, snort) and desktop
(coracle.social). They help you set yourself up in different ways and to learn
more about how I got started then checkout [[getting-started-with-nostr]].
There's also content-driven nostr apps, for example [fountain]() is great for
music and podcasts that are distributed on the nostrverse, which feels like a
totally different world than when I use coracle to browse my tech or bible
related feeds.

## End

Nostr is a pretty cool thing taking shape... here's some related info

[Thank God for nostr podcast](https://tgfb.com/podcasts/thank-god-for-nostr/)

[nostr website](https://nostr.com/)

> Note these posts aren't available yet but they will show up on my RSS feed when they're published

My post on [[getting-started-with-nostr]]

My project on [[thoughts-to-nostr]]

...

## Follow Me

![20250705122314_e9fbd0f7.png](https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250705122314_e9fbd0f7.png)

???+ note "my public key"

    npub1q3fsec2vcv99v80ga72dlv90qwkqmuxqcr6mdyumcmpkgudlhrespyurfj
