---
date: 2025-09-24 05:42:24
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflection - Romans 3:26
published: True
tags:
  - reflection
  - faith
cover: "https://cdn.statically.io/gh/pypeaday/images.pype.dev/main/blog-media/20250924112220_7eeeed33.png"
---

From Morning and Evening today, Spurgeon has thoughts on Romans 3:26. I need
more context personally, so here's a newer translation of 3:25-26

!!! note "Romans 3:25-26"

    25﻿God put Jesus forth as the place of mercy, through faithfulness, by
    means of his blood. He did this to demonstrate his covenant justice, because
    of the passing over (in divine forbearance) of sins committed beforehand.
    26﻿This was to demonstrate his covenant justice in the present time: that
    is, that he himself is in the right, and that he declares to be in the right
    everyone who trusts in the faithfulness of Jesus.

    Goldingay, J., & Wright, T. (2018). The Bible for Everyone: A New Translation
    (Ro 3:25–26). SPCK.

??? danger "NPP"

    I'm not here to debate "faith in Jesus" vs "faithfulness of Jesus"... I
    feel so beyond debating semantics when either way it's Jesus who gives you
    faith and chooses in the first place

Spurgeon's meditation certainly resolves around Penal Substitutionary
Atonement, a doctrine I have come to mostly reject, but I have plenty of
common-ground with a conviction of PSA-subscribers and Spurgeon - and that's
that we can trust, as chosen people of God, that "there is now **no**
condemnation for those in Christ Jesus"

Not only is there no condemnation, but on the contrary Jesus **declares to be
in the right everyone who trusts**.

This is the great confidence of the Christian, and the source of my comfort -
that even though there is sin in my past and future (and I pray sorrow over
it), I can trust in God's unchanging nature. He says in effect "Out of my
divine grace to call your name from the grave, by the covering of Jesus and the
work of the cross, you are free. Free from condemnation, free from judgement,
and today (and everyday) free from the yoke of sin"

Freedom... such an interesting word... It came up recently in my
[[reflection---galatians-5-1]] as well. I guess as I reflect here, freedom is
about our behavior and what we do or don't do. But confidence is the partner of
freedom. A child who has the freedom on the playground to play with whatever
they want will sit in the corner if they are afraid of consequences of doing
something wrong - this would come from a place of not trusting in the freedom
they've been given. The child lacks comfort in their freedom to play with what
they want unless the faithfulness and goodness of the one who gives the freedom
is impressed into the child and they can exercise trust in that authority -
which is manifest in their joyful play on the playground.

So for the Christian this obviously doesn't mean "free to do whatever I want",
the metaphor isn't perfect (it's made better by aligning the walls around a
playground with the boundaries of proper-human living)... Jesus actually gives
me the freedom to do **his** will over my own, because apart from him I am not
able to choose anything besides the sinful desires of my own heart.

But this morning, I think the full circle is that when I do choose my own
desires, when I fall back into the "not yet", when I sacrifice my divine
freedom on the altar of my own life for a cheap song, I can **still have
confidence that my God calls me right by the work of my Lord, Jesus**

This great confidence can never excuse sin, can never justify the choice. But
the reality is that a good God ordered and created the world, and he chooses
whomever he chooses... By his graceful choice to adopt me, I have confidence in
his Name that the sin I run to will not ultimately destroy me - because Jesus
intervened and gives me new life everyday
