---
date: 2025-09-06 07:12:55
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflection on Philippians 2:14-18
published: True
tags:
  - reflection
  - faith
cover: ""
---

!!! note "Philippians 2:15-18"

    14 Do all things without grumbling and disputing, 15 in order that you may
    become blameless and innocent, children of God without fault in the midst of a
    crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as stars in the world,
    16 holding fast to the word of life, for a source of pride to me in the day of
    Christ, that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. 17 But even if I am being
    poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I
    rejoice and rejoice with all of you. 18 And in the same way also you rejoice
    and rejoice with me. 

"Do all things without grumbling and disputing"... now, taking verses out of
context is one of my biggest pet-peeves in Christian circles (and non-Christian
as well I suppose, but when non-believers who read 4 pages of the Bible 20
years ago try to tell me what anything means I can kindly ask them to keep
their illiteracy to themselves)

However! With my brothers and sisters, there's no such ask - if we all call on
Jesus then we will edifiy and educate one another on appropriate applications
of the inspired word of God.

With that said... dang do I grumble a lot about work... at least lately. I
believe that nearly everyone I work with knows my worldview, I don't think
anyone who spends a few days, maybe even hours (by God's grace) will know who I
serve just by my languge and verbiage. But I'm not a prime example of Christian
living (yet... hopefully). I had been [[reflecting-on-romans-7-7-13]] for
several days and the "sin in me" is what I see come out when I let my guard
down against letting strife and anger enter my heart.

I read this passage and found myself immediately focused on "in the midst of a
crooked and perverted generation" because our generation is disgusting... I
know immorality and public perverted-ness was present in the before-fore times,
but I have to imagine that Paul and the other NT writers couldn't have imagined
the kind of disgusting perverted anti-nature nonsense that is everywhere in our
society. We celebrate sex over everything, and a twisted understanding of sex
for that matter... My daughter's are growing up in a world where I feel the
need to practice constant vigilence against the evil forces in the world that
would seek to them and twist their understanding of themselves into nothing
more than objects of desire and consumption... And ya know what, that's a
worthy thing to meditate on and prepare for.

But it's not what my heart needs... My girls are relatively safe (for the time
being) but everyday I face the sin of my own heart, it's crouching at the door,
and should not that be my higher concern?

I even notice now in this reflection that my mind is drawn away from myself,
and it is difficult to follow the Lord in meditation... perhaps it's too noisey
but perhaps I'm looking for too much...

This day I choose whom I will serve, and by God's grace it's the King Jesus...
Help my unbelief and still the grumbling in my life.
