---
date: 2024-10-12 05:40:11
templateKey: blog-post
title: Reflection - Wisdom in Relationships
published: True
tags:
    - bible-project
    - faith
    - reflection
---

This morning I finally felt some motivation for a short Bible Project video.
The app is great (ðŸ’¯ would recommend) and gives me daily reminders that are
unobtrusive.

The passage is Matthew 7:1-2

``` Do not judge so tha tyou will not be judged. Because with the judgement
that you judge, you will be judged.

And with the measure that you measure, it will be measured to you. ```

There are some personal things going on for me as I wrestle and work through an
AuDHD diagnosis and there's a lot for me having grown up as a (almost
certainly) undiagnosed mild-autistic. These 2 verses are in a larger section of
Scripture called "The Sermon on the Mount", Jesus starts it by basically saying
he'll summarize the Law and Prophets in Matthew 5, then concludes it in Matthew
7 by saying he summed them up with what we call the Golden Rule - `do unto
others as you would have them do unto you` is how my Souther Baptist Grandma
used to say it.

I've grown up into knowing it's simply silly to expect non-Christians to live
Biblically - I do not understand the judgement some Christians throw at
non-believers for things like cohabitation or getting drunk... It's literally
what I would do without Jesus guiding my lie. However I've always felt a pretty
unreasonable responsibility to point out where Christians are living by double
standards. Jesus addresses this with another commonly known question - "Why do
you take the spec our of your brother's eye but ignore the log in your own
eye?". I'm very personally aware, almost to a hyper degree, but I definitely
don't have perfect-awaremenss, and I don't know if I'm losing zeal as I get
older or actually growing into wisdom but I am sliding more and more into a
position of just not worrying about what other people are doing. As long as my
family is safe I'm basically a full-blown libertarian when it comes to people
living their lives.

The BP message this morning was just great confirmation that this is
directionally correct, at least right now for me. I spent a lot of time as a
kid worrying about other Christians living appropriately (this was partly
driven by needing older Christians to help me live appropriately and so I felt
responsiblity to help provide that environment for myself... combination of
God's grace and undiagnosed AuDHD methinks). Now as an adult I spend most of my
time thanking Jesus for saving me from myself and I simply trust that he will
save who he saves. Because that's not up to me I can focus on what I can manage
- my own life and family.
