---
date: 2022-09-21 06:21:19
templateKey: blog-post
title: Tree of Life
published: True
tags:
    - bible-project
    - faith
---

# Video

## Eden

Biblical story begins in a garden, which is presented as a type of Temple. The
top (center) is the Tree of Life, which represents God's life and creative
power. Humans **were supposed to eat from the Tree of Life** but there's
another tree, the Tree of Knowledge of "good" and "bad" which represents
assuming the authority to define good and bad for one's own life rather than
trusting God's defintion. Human eat of that tree and are thus exiled from the
garden.

## Burning Bush

Moses meets God at a burning tree, a plant on a mountain radiating with God's
power just like the Tree of Life. Yahweh charges Moses to bring the same choice
to the Israelites that Adam and Eve had, which is to trust God or define
morality for themselves.

## Jesus

Jesus announced that God's eternal life is available through him now -
originally in Eden given through the Tree of Life. Jesus invites other people
to "eat of him" to be transformed by God's own life. The invitation is the same
- to trust Yahweh or not. But Jesus' life exposes humanity's brokenness in that
    humans crucified him. Jesus is hung on a cross (a tree) on the top of a
    hill (like Mt. Sinai) and humans not only eat of a different false tree of
    life, but they chopped down the real Tree of Life - Jesus.

# Questions

!!! note "1"

        What is one practical example of what it means to eat from the tree of
        life? How is it different from eating from the false tree of life?

Giving money away I think is one practical example of eating from the tree of
life. Jesus calls us to share our blessings, and choosing to live by his
authority rather than decide for myself what to do with my money (meaning to
spend it on my desires only rather than invest in the Kingdom) then I make the
same choice humanity always makes - to not trust God's definition of good and
bad

!!! note "2"
    
    Compare John 15:5-13
    with Matthew 7:15-20
    . How does the true vine give life? How do we recognize a false tree of life?

!!! scripture "John 15:5-13"

    5I am the vine, you are the branches; he who abides in Me and I in him, he
    bears much fruit, for apart from Me you can do nothing. 6If anyone does not
    abide in Me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up; and they gather
    them, and cast them into the fire and they are burned. 7If you abide in Me,
    and My words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for
    you. 8My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so
    prove to be My disciples. 9Just as the Father has loved Me, I have also
    loved you; abide in My love. 10If you keep My commandments, you will abide
    in My love; just as I have kept My Father’s commandments and abide in His
    love. 11These things I have spoken to you so that My joy may be in you, and
    that your joy may be made full. Disciples’ Relation to Each Other 12“This
    is My commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you.
    13Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his
    friends.


!!! scripture "Matthew 7:15-20"

    15“Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but
    inwardly are ravenous wolves. 16You will know them by their fruits. Grapes
    are not gathered from thorn bushes nor figs from thistles, are they? 17So
    every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. 18A
    good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit.
    19Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the
    fire. 20So then, you will know them by their fruits.

The true vine gives life through communion and connection. Jesus says to "abide
in [him]" which is represented by a choice to believe him about kingdom, love,
relationships, brokenness, etc... By meditating on the Word of God, communing
with Jesus, being washed and guided by the Spirit we are transformed more and more into
the image of Jesus which is real and true life.

!!! note "3"

    What are some examples of good fruit and bad fruit (see Galatians 5:16-25)?

!!! scripture "Galations 5:16-25"

    16But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of
    the flesh. 17For the flesh sets its desire against the Spirit, and the
    Spirit against the flesh; for these are in opposition to one another, so
    that you may not do the things that you please. 18But if you are led by the
    Spirit, you are not under the Law. 19Now the deeds of the flesh are
    evident, which are: immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20idolatry, sorcery,
    enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions,
    factions, 21envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, of
    which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who
    practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit
    of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,
    faithfulness, 23gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no
    law. 24Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with
    its passions and desires. 25If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by
    the Spirit.

Good fruit:

    - choosing to guard my eyes and thoughts against sexual immorality
    - remaining calm when things aren't going my way at work
    - drinking water instead of _another_ drink at night
    - giving money away out of love
    - seeking unity and charity especially in any time of conflict

Bad fruit:

    - outbursts at work - for me this is basically giving up hope for someone to be successful. By God's grace I have a desire to help peopl learn and succeed, but I can exhaust that desire and instead of prioritize an individual's well-being/growth I place my frustration above that and let my annoyance guide me more than a spirit of teaching and gentleness
    - having that second, or third, drink 

> If you are led byt he Spirit, you are not under the Law... This isn't saying
> that the Law doesn't apply, but that by the Spirit's guidance we will never
> be found guilty by anything in the Law!

!!! note "4"

    When Jesus talks about what his death will accomplish, he talks about a
    seed going into the ground before it bears fruit (see John 12:23-26). What
    could it look like to live in the ways of Jesus and bear the fruit of life?

!!! scripture "John 12:23-26"


    23And Jesus *answered them, saying, “The hour has come for the Son of Man
    to be glorified. 24Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat
    falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears
    much fruit. 25He who loves his life loses it, and he who hates his life in
    this world will keep it to life eternal. 26If anyone serves Me, he must
    follow Me; and where I am, there My servant will be also; if anyone serves
    Me, the Father will honor him.

Meditating on God's faithfulness to humanity in spite of our disobedience I
think is an avenue by which the Spirit changes our hearts and as we are changed
by him we live lives that reflect Jesus' own life

I think there can be many facets to the seed dying aspect, one relevant piece
seems fairly self-evident in the passage... if we hold onto our life (ie. be a
seed that never dies) then we will never flourish, but if we give up the life
we have now and live like Jesus did, we will blessed with life


